PRUSHIELD PREMIER 
PRUSHIELD PLUS 

1.1 Our agreement
1.1.1 This policy document and the following documents: -
- your Policy Certificate, 
- your Proposal Form (and your Supplementary Proposal Form, if any), 
- your PRUPlanner or Financial Needs Analysis,
- the questionnaires pertaining to your lifestyle, occupational and medical condition that you had 
submitted to us for our underwriting purposes (if any),
- our Offer of Conditional Acceptance (if any), and 
- all written correspondence between yourself and us relating to your policy (if any),
shall constitute the entire agreement between you and us relating to your policy with us and 
supersedes all previous representations, warranties and agreements whether written or oral.
Your policy is a legal contract between you* and us. We* agree to give you the benefits set out in your 
Policy Certificate as explained in this Policy document for the premium paid by you.
The information you gave us in the proposal form, supplementary proposal form and any 
correspondence for this policy was relied on by us in deciding whether or not to insure you.
Your policy may be void if any information you give us is incomplete or inaccurate or you do not comply 
with the conditions of your policy.
Your policy is only for the cover and the period shown on your Policy Certificate. It is also subject to 
the terms and conditions contained in this Policy document. 
We give you a new Policy Certificate when you make any alteration to your policy. It becomes your 
current Policy Certificate. 
A person who is not a party to this policy has no right under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 
to enforce any of the terms and conditions of this policy.
The life assured is also insured under MediShield Life operated by the Central Provident Fund (“CPF”) 
Board which is governed by the Central Provident Fund Act (Chapter 36) and MediShield Life Scheme
Act (No. 4 of 2015) (Act) and the respective subsidiary legislation made thereunder (Regulations), 
provided the life assured meets the eligibility conditions as specified in the Act and Regulations. The 
life assured, if insured under MediShield Life, shall enjoy all benefits of MediShield Life as provided 
under the Act and Regulations.
*you – means the policyowner shown on your Policy Certificate
*we – means Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Limited
1.1.2 Review period
We give you a period of 21 days from the date of receipt of this Policy document, to review your policy.
If you decide this policy is not suitable for your needs, simply write to us within the 21-day review 
period. We will refund any premium you have paid (without interest), less medical fees, other expenses 
we have had to pay and any amounts you owe us in connection with the policy.
If your policy document and all other documents from us are made available electronically via 
PRUaccess, then they are considered delivered and received when we send you the relevant SMS 
and/or email notification informing you that the documents are accessible on PRUaccess.
Otherwise, your policy and all other documents from us are considered delivered and received in the 
ordinary course of the post, 7 days from the date of posting to the last known address notified to us.
This review period will not apply if you have done a change of plan (refer to Clause 1.5).


1.2 What type of benefit?
PRUShield is the enhancement plan that is offered on top of the MediShield Life tier operated by the 
CPF Board. It provides additional benefits to meet the needs of Singaporeans and Singapore 
Permanent Residents who would like more coverage and insurance protection against hospitalisation 
in B2 or C wards and above of restructured Hospitals or private Hospitals. 
We will pay the claims according to the benefits under this enhancement plan or MediShield Life, 
whichever is higher. 
Benefits under this policy are only payable when the life assured suffers from an Injury or Illness, 
which is covered under this policy and the life assured is hospitalised as an inpatient, or undergoes 
day surgery or selected outpatient treatment, as defined in this policy.
We do not pay under the following benefits if the medical expenses are incurred at non-MediShield 
Life accredited Hospitals or treatment centres:
- Inpatient and Day Surgery benefits (refer to Clause 1.4.3)
- Outpatient Hospital benefits (refer to Clause 1.4.5)
If the life assured is a foreigner who is not a Singapore Permanent Resident, then your PRUShield 
plan does not cover the MediShield Life tier operated by the CPF Board. We will pay the claims 
according to the benefits under this PRUShield plan. 
We do not pay for claims where the medical expenses have been paid by other medical insurance or 
you have received reimbursement from any other source.
This policy is protected under the Policy Owners’ Protection Scheme which is administered by the 
Singapore Deposit Insurance Corporation (SDIC). Coverage for your policy is automatic and no further 
action is required from you. For more information on the types of benefits that are covered under the 
scheme as well as the limits of coverage, where applicable, please contact your insurer or visit the 
General Insurance Association (GIA) /Life Insurance Association (LIA) or SDIC web-sites 
(www.gia.org.sg or www.lia.org.sg or www.sdic.org.sg).
1.2.1 Basic benefits offered
We provide you with 4 basic benefits that pay for Medically Necessary treatment and reimburses 
Reasonable and Customary Expenses incurred. They are: 
1) Inpatient and Day Surgery benefits – comprising 4 sub-benefits:
a) Daily Ward and Treatment Charges:
i) Normal Ward – pays for ward and treatment charges, as set out in the Benefits 
Schedule, 
ii) Intensive Care Unit Ward – pays the Intensive Care Unit (“ICU”) charges, as set out 
in the Benefits Schedule. 
iii) Miscellaneous Hospital Services – pays for Medically Necessary services or materials 
supplied by the Hospital to the life assured while hospitalised. 
iv) Daily Inpatient Physician Visit – pays for charges incurred when a Physician who is a 
Registered Medical Practitioner attends and treats the life assured while hospitalised. 
v) Community Hospital – pays for ward and treatment charges when hospitalised in a 
Community Hospital. 
vi) Accidental Inpatient Dental Treatment – pays for dental procedures on the life 
assured’s natural teeth lost or damaged through an Accident. 
vii) Inpatient Palliative Care Service (General) – pays for medical expenses incurred for 
general inpatient palliative care services. 
viii) Inpatient Palliative Care Service (Specialised) – pays for medical expenses incurred 
for specialised inpatient palliative care services.
b) Surgical benefit:
i) Surgical Procedure – pays all Medically Necessary Surgical Procedures, as set out in 
the Benefits Schedule. 
ii) Organ Transplant benefit – pays when the life assured is hospitalised for a surgical 
transplant of the following organs due to a covered disability: kidney(s), heart, liver, 
cornea(s), bone marrow, skin and musculoskeletal tissue. 
iii) Stem Cell Transplant Treatment– pays medical expenses incurred for a life assured 
to undergo stem cell transplant treatment due to Leukaemia, Thalassemia Major and 

Lymphoma after not having responded to other treatments such as chemotherapy, 
radiotherapy or surgery.
iv) Implants – pays, as set out in the Benefits Schedule, for Medically Necessary implant(s) 
inserted into the body of the life assured during surgery and remains in the body of the
life assured on completion of the surgery. 
v) Radiosurgery – pays expenses incurred when the life assured undergoes 
Radiosurgery. Radiosurgery can be performed as an Inpatient or day surgery procedure.
c) Living Organ Donor Transplant benefit:
i) When the life assured is the organ donor – we pay the hospitalisation expenses, as 
set out in the Benefits Schedule, incurred in a Singapore Hospital, when the life assured 
donates specific organs. 
ii) When the life assured is the organ recipient – we pay the hospitalisation expenses, 
as set out in the Benefits Schedule, incurred by the organ donor, provided the donor 
does not have any insurance coverage for such expenses or receive any reimbursement 
for expenses incurred, from another source. 
d) Overseas Medical Treatment benefit:
i) Emergency Medical Treatment outside Singapore – pays the hospitalisation 
expenses as a result of emergency medical treatment while overseas.
ii) Planned Overseas Medical Treatment – pays the hospitalisation and day surgery 
expenses incurred in selected Hospitals overseas.
2) Pre and Post-hospitalisation benefits:
i) Pre-hospitalisation Consultation and Services – pays pre-hospitalisation expenses 
incurred for general practitioner consultation (including outpatient telemedicine consultation) 
resulting in a referral to a Specialist, Specialist consultation fees and outpatient telemedicine 
consultation fees, including the cost of medications and diagnostic and laboratory tests 
service fees, incurred within 180 days before the life assured’s Hospital Confinement
(including Psychiatric Treatment), confinement in a Community Hospital, Short Stay Ward or 
day surgery for treatment of the same Injury or Illness. 
ii) Post-hospitalisation Follow-up Treatment and Services – pays Post-hospitalisation 
treatment for dressings, consultations (including outpatient telemedicine consultation), 
physiotherapy performed at a Hospital or Specialist clinic and diagnostic and laboratory tests 
services and medicines consumed within 365 days following the discharge from Hospital
(including Psychiatric Treatment), Community Hospital, Short Stay Ward or day surgery for 
the same Injury or Illness. 
iii) Post-hospitalisation Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy – pays Post-hospitalisation treatment 
expenses incurred for hyperbaric oxygen therapy within 365 days following the discharge 
from Hospital, Community Hospital or day surgery for the same Injury or Illness up to the 
limits as set out in the Benefits Schedule. 
The above benefits under point 1) and 2) are subject to the Deductible, Co-Insurance and Pro-ration 
as set out in the Benefits Schedule. 
3) Outpatient Hospital benefits – comprising 4 sub-benefits:
a) Outpatient Cancer Treatment – reimburses, as set out in the Benefits Schedule, the 
Reasonable and Customary Expenses incurred for approved outpatient cancer treatment at 
MediSave/MediShield Life accredited cancer treatment centres.
b) Outpatient Kidney Failure Treatment – reimburses, as set out in the Benefits Schedule, 
the Reasonable and Customary Expenses incurred for approved outpatient kidney dialysis 
treatment at MediSave/MediShield Life accredited dialysis treatment centres and the cost of 
the Medically Necessary prescribed erythropoietin for chronic kidney failure.
c) Immunosuppressants for Organ Transplant – reimburses, as set out in the Benefits 
Schedule, the cost of the Medically Necessary prescribed Immunosuppressants. 
d) Long-Term Parenteral Nutrition - reimburses, as set out in the Benefits Schedule, the cost 
of Parenteral nutrition bags and consumables necessary for administering Long-Term 
Parenteral Nutrition that meets the MediShield Life criteria.
The above benefits under point 3) are subject to Co-Insurance and Pro-ration as set out in the Benefits 
Schedule.
4) Other benefits 
i) Final Expense Provision benefit – waives the Deductible and Co-insurance amounts up to 
the Final Expense limits as set out in the Benefits Schedule if the life assured dies during 
hospitalisation or within 30 days of discharge from the Hospital as a result of the cause of the 
hospitalisation. 
ii) Serious Pregnancy and Delivery-related Complications – reimburses the medical 
expenses incurred when any one of the listed conditions (refer to Clause 1.4.6.2) is first 
diagnosed by an obstetrician after 10 months from the Cover Start Date of the policy or the 
date of reinstatement (if any), whichever is later.
iii) Congenital Abnormalities for: 
a) a life assured – pays for hospitalisation expenses incurred for Medically Necessary 
treatment relating to birth defects, including hereditary conditions and congenital 
sickness or abnormalities of the life assured, up to the limit as set out in the Benefits 
Schedule. 
b) a female life assured’s biological child – pays for hospitalisation expenses incurred 
for Medically Necessary treatment relating to birth defects, including hereditary 
conditions and congenital sickness or abnormalities of a female life assured’s biological 
child during the first 24 months from the birth of the child up to the limit as set out in the 
Benefits Schedule.
iv) Psychiatric – pays the medical expenses incurred, up to the limit as set out in the Benefits 
Schedule, if the life assured receives inpatient psychiatric treatments. Also includes Pre- and 
Post-hospitalisation expenses incurred for Psychiatric Treatment 
v) Short Stay Ward – pays for charges incurred in the Short Stay Ward even if it does not result 
in the hospitalisation of the life assured. Also includes Pre- and Post-hospitalisation expenses 
incurred in the Short Stay Ward.
vi) Future Insurance Option at life events – allows the life assured to buy another policy at 
certain life events. 
vii) Continuation of the Autologous Bone Marrow Transplant Treatment for Multiple 
Myeloma – reimburses the medical expenses incurred, up to the limit as set out in the 
Benefits Schedule, if the life assured undergoes Continuation of the Autologous Bone Marrow 
Transplant Treatment for Multiple Myeloma. 
viii) Inpatient and Outpatient Proton Beam Therapy – reimburses the medical expenses 
incurred, up to the limit as set out in the Benefits Schedule, if the life assured undergoes 
Proton Beam Therapy treatment as an inpatient, outpatient or day surgery procedure
ix) Cell Tissue and Gene Therapy Treatment – reimburses the medical expenses incurred, up 
to the limit as set out in the Benefits Schedule, if the life assured undergoes inpatient hospital 
treatment (including day surgery) for Cell Tissue and Gene Therapy Treatment. 
x) Refresh benefit – resets the benefit limit for inpatient hospitalisation expenses as set out in 
the Benefits Schedule if the life assured has exceeded the Policy Year Limit, and is 
subsequently hospitalised for a different medical condition.
For a detailed explanation of the above benefits, please refer to Clause 1.4 of this Policy document.
1.3 Payment of premiums
1.3.1 Your obligations
Your Policy Certificate shows the date your first premium is due and the premium amount. Your 
premium for each subsequent Policy Year is due on each anniversary of the Cover Start Date 
(Premium Due Date). You must pay your premium within 90 days from each Premium Due Date (the 
Grace Period). We will send you a notice when your premium is due. 
If you fail to pay your premium within the Grace Period, your policy automatically terminates. In this 
instance, as long as your premiums are not paid, claims submitted for an Illness or Injury incurred 
within the Grace Period will not be considered.
1.3.2 Premium payment from MediSave
If you pay your premium with funds from a MediSave account, we will deduct premiums annually from 
this MediSave account up to a maximum withdrawal limit per life assured per Policy Year as stipulated 
by the CPF Board. If the premium due is more than the maximum withdrawal limit or there are

nsufficient funds in the MediSave account to pay the premium due, the balance premium due can be 
paid by cash within the Grace Period.
1.3.3 Premium payment by cash 
If you pay your premiums by cash or cheque, we will send you a notice when your premium is due. 
You must ensure that your premiums are paid on time even if you do not receive the notice.
If you are a foreigner with an Eligible Valid Pass, you must pay your premiums via GIRO or credit card. 
We will renew your policy only if your premiums are paid by either of these methods. 
1.3.4 Renewal premium rate
On the Premium Due Date for each Policy Year, the required renewal premium rate for the life assured 
will be determined based on:
- the type of plan of your policy; and 
- the age next birthday of the life assured.
1.4 What type of plan? 
1.4.1 Types of plan offered
The table below (Benefits Schedule) shows the maximum benefits offered for the various plans.
Benefits Schedule (please refer to Clauses 1.4.3 to 1.4.6 for the details of these benefits)

#### 
[TABLE = Benefits Schedule = [SUBSECTION = Inpatient and Day Surgery Benefits]]

Under PRUShield Premier, Normal Ward daily ward and treatment charges are covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Private Hospital; under PRUShield Plus they are covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Restructured Hospital (Class A Ward).  
Under PRUShield Premier, Intensive Care Unit Ward charges are covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Private Hospital; under PRUShield Plus they are covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Restructured Hospital (Class A Ward).  
Under PRUShield Premier, Miscellaneous Hospital Services are covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Private Hospital; under PRUShield Plus they are covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Restructured Hospital (Class A Ward).  
Under PRUShield Premier, Daily Inpatient Physician Visit charges are covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Private Hospital; under PRUShield Plus they are covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Restructured Hospital (Class A Ward).  
Under PRUShield Premier, Community Hospital (Rehabilitative) charges are covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Private Hospital; under PRUShield Plus they are covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Restructured Hospital (Class A Ward).  
Under PRUShield Premier, Community Hospital (Sub‑acute) charges are covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Private Hospital; under PRUShield Plus they are covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Restructured Hospital (Class A Ward).  
Under PRUShield Premier, Accidental Inpatient Dental Treatment is covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Private Hospital; under PRUShield Plus it is covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Restructured Hospital (Class A Ward).  
Under PRUShield Premier, Inpatient Palliative Care Service (General) is covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Private Hospital; under PRUShield Plus it is covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Restructured Hospital (Class A Ward).  
Under PRUShield Premier, Inpatient Palliative Care Service (Specialised) is covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Private Hospital; under PRUShield Plus it is covered on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Restructured Hospital (Class A Ward).

[TABLE = Benefits Schedule = [SUBSECTION = Surgical Benefits (including Day Surgery)]]

PRUShield Premier covers Surgical Procedure charges on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Private Hospital; PRUShield Plus covers them on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Restructured Hospital (Class A Ward).  
PRUShield Premier covers Organ Transplant benefit on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Private Hospital; PRUShield Plus covers it on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Restructured Hospital (Class A Ward).  
PRUShield Premier covers Stem Cell Transplant Treatment on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Private Hospital; PRUShield Plus covers it on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Restructured Hospital (Class A Ward).  
PRUShield Premier covers Implants on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Private Hospital; PRUShield Plus covers them on an “As charged” basis in a Singapore Restructured Hospital (Class A Ward).  
PR

[TABLE = Benefits Schedule = [SUBSECTION = Deductibles per Policy Year]]

For Day Surgery – Non‑Subsidised, the deductible per policy year is SGD 2 000 under PRUShield Premier and SGD 2 000 under PRUShield Plus.  
For Short Stay Ward – Subsidised, the deductible per policy year is SGD 1 500 under PRUShield Premier and SGD 1 500 under PRUShield Plus.  
For Short Stay Ward – Non‑Subsidised, the deductible per policy year is SGD 2 000 under PRUShield Premier and SGD 2 000 under PRUShield Plus.  
Deductibles will be increased by 50 percent depending on ward class when the life assured is above age 85.

[TABLE = Benefits Schedule = [SUBSECTION = Co‑insurance]]

Both PRUShield Premier and PRUShield Plus apply a 10 percent co‑insurance rate to claimable amounts after the deductible.

[TABLE = Benefits Schedule = [SUBSECTION = Pro‑ration Factors]]

For treatment in a Private Hospital, higher‑class ward, or private clinic/medical institution, PRUShield Premier provides no reimbursement (N.A.), while PRUShield Plus applies a 65 percent pro‑ration factor.  
Overseas Government Hospitals are considered private hospitals, and the same pro‑ration rules apply.

[TABLE = Benefits Schedule = [SUBSECTION = Limits of Cover]]

PRUShield Premier provides a policy‑year limit of SGD 1 200 000, which increases to SGD 2 000 000 if the insured is admitted to and treated by a Panel Provider; PRUShield Plus provides a policy‑year limit of SGD 1 000 000.  
PRUShield Premier offers an unlimited lifetime limit; PRUShield Plus also offers an unlimited lifetime limit.  
PRUShield Premier includes a refresh benefit that resets the policy‑year limit to SGD 1 200 000 once it is reached; PRUShield Plus resets the limit to SGD 1 000 000.

[TABLE = Benefits Schedule = [SUBSECTION = Age Limits]]

Both PRUShield Premier and PRUShield Plus have a maximum entry age of 75 years and allow renewal for a lifetime.

1.4.2 What plan do you have?
Your Policy Certificate shows the type of plan you have.
1.4.3 Inpatient and Day Surgery benefits
These benefits below are subject to the Deductible, Co-insurance and Pro-ration.
1.4.3.1 What do we pay for Normal Ward?
If the life assured is hospitalised in a Standard Room of a Hospital as a result of Injury or Illness, we 
pay the normal ward charges for each day of Hospital Confinement that are Reasonable and 
Customary Expenses. This may include meals, in-patient prescriptions, professional charges, 
investigations, laboratory tests, high dependency ward stay and charges for other medical services. 
For PRUShield Plus, the normal ward entitlement is any Standard Room of a Singapore Restructured 
Hospital.

If a Hospital Confinement flows over to the next Policy Year, the benefits will be processed based on 
the previous Policy Year’s benefits, limits and Deductible when the life assured was first admitted for 
hospitalisation. 
If the life assured changes ward of stay during Hospital Confinement, the Deductible applicable to the 
claim will be based on the highest ward class the life assured had stayed in.
1.4.3.2 What do we pay for Intensive Care Unit (ICU) Ward? 
We pay the ICU ward charges if the life assured is confined in the ICU ward because of Injury or 
Illness. Charges may include meals and other medical services. 
1.4.3.3 What do we pay for Miscellaneous Hospital Services?
We pay for the services or materials supplied by the Hospital to the life assured during his 
hospitalisation, provided they are Medically Necessary and deemed to be Reasonable and Customary 
Expenses.
The services and materials include Inpatient drugs, dressing or medicines prescribed for treatment, 
diagnostic and investigative procedures, laboratory tests and other miscellaneous medical charges 
during the life assured’s hospitalisation. 
1.4.3.4 What do we pay for Daily Inpatient Physician Visit? 
We pay for the professional charges and consultation fees when a Physician who is a Registered
Medical Practitioner attends to and treats the life assured during his hospitalisation. 
1.4.3.5 What do we pay for Community Hospital?
Upon discharge from the Hospital or upon a referral from a Restructured Hospital’s emergency 
department, if the life assured is immediately hospitalised in a Standard Room of a Community 
Hospital to continue treatment for Rehabilitative care or for Sub-acute care, we pay the actual normal 
ward charges including meals, Inpatient prescriptions, professional charges, investigations, laboratory 
tests, charges for high dependency wards and other medical services.
Hospice and convalescent centres/hospitals/homes are not covered. 
We also reimburse the Reasonable and Customary expenses incurred for Community Hospital if the 
life assured is referred from the Emergency Department of a restructured Acute Hospital.
1.4.3.6 What do we pay for Accidental Inpatient Dental Treatment?
We pay for dental procedures performed by a duly qualified dental surgeon during Hospital 
Confinement to remove, replace or restore natural teeth lost or damaged because of an Accident. 
We pay if the treatment is within one year from the date of Accident. 
1.4.3.7 What do we pay for Inpatient Hospice Palliative Care Service?
We pay for Reasonable and Customary Expenses incurred for inpatient palliative care services in a 
Hospice if the life assured is suffering from a Terminal Illness. This inpatient stay in a Hospice must 
be referred by a Registered Medical Practitioner or Specialist and must be for a continuous period of 
at least six hours.
1.4.3.7.1 What do we pay for Inpatient Palliative Care Service (General)?
We pay for the medical expenses incurred if the life assured receives General Inpatient Palliative Care,
up to the limits as set out in the Benefits Schedule.
The life assured must be admitted for General Inpatient Palliative Care by a Registered Medical 
Practitioner, according to the relevant guidelines from MOH.
1.4.3.7.2 What do we pay for Inpatient Palliative Care Service (Specialised)?
We pay for the medical expenses incurred if the life assured receives Specialised Inpatient Palliative 
Care, up to the limits as set out in the Benefits Schedule.
The life assured must be admitted for Specialised Inpatient Palliative Care by a Registered Medical 
Practitioner, according to the relevant guidelines from MOH

 1.4.3.8 What do we pay for Surgical Procedure?
We pay if the life assured undergoes a Medically Necessary Surgical Procedure during his Hospital 
Confinement. Charges may include operating theatre and anaesthesia fees.
If the life assured undergoes day surgery where normal ward charges may not be applicable, we will 
still pay the Surgical Procedure benefit. 
1.4.3.8.1What do we pay for Organ Transplant benefit?
We pay if the life assured is hospitalised for an Injury or Illness and undergoes a surgical transplant of 
the following organs – kidney(s), heart, liver, cornea(s), bone marrow, skin and musculoskeletal tissue. 
We will also pay for the Reasonable and Customary Expenses of acquiring any one of the above listed 
organs from a deceased donor but only if the transplantation is Medically Necessary. 
However, we will not pay:
- for the expense of acquiring the organ from a living donor; or
- if the transplantation is illegal or arises from any illegal transaction or practice.
This benefit does not cover organ transplant surgery if the life assured is the donor of the organ. 
1.4.3.8.2What do we pay for Stem Cell Transplant Treatment?
We pay for the medical expenses incurred if the life assured undergoes stem cell transplant treatment 
because of Leukaemia, Thalassemia Major and Lymphoma after not responding to other treatments 
such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy or surgery. 
We do not pay for Inpatient and Outpatient Proton Beam Therapy and Cell Tissue & Gene Therapy 
Treatment under this benefit.
1.4.3.8.3What do we pay for Implants?
We pay if the life assured undergoes surgery and an implant is inserted into the body of the life assured 
and remains in the body on completion of the surgery. 
We pay for approved medical consumables which may include intravascular electrodes used for 
electrophysiological procedures, Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty (PTCA) and intraaortic balloons (or balloon catheters).
The implants and approved medical consumables must be Medically Necessary and deemed to be 
Reasonable and Customary Expenses.
1.4.3.8.4What do we pay for Radiosurgery?
We pay for the expenses incurred when the life assured undergoes Radiosurgery. Radiosurgery can 
be performed as an Inpatient or day surgery procedure. 
The applicable Deductible and Pro-ration factor for Radiosurgery procedure will depend on its 
classification as an Inpatient or day surgery procedure. 
We do not pay for Inpatient and Outpatient Proton Beam Therapy and Cell Tissue & Gene Therapy 
Treatment under this benefit.
1.4.3.9 What do we pay for the Living Organ Donor Transplant benefit?
The benefits below are subject to the deductible, co-insurance limits and pro-ration. 
1.4.3.9.1When the life assured is the organ donor 
We pay for the hospitalisation expenses, as set out in the Benefits Schedule, if the life assured donates 
his organ(s) – kidney and/or liver, provided the transplantation is carried out in a Hospital in Singapore. 
The recipient must have been first diagnosed by a Registered Medical Practitioner, or the symptoms 
of the organ failure must have first appeared after 24 months from the:
- Cover Start Date of this policy; or 
- date of reinstatement (if any),
whichever is later. 
We will pay for the following: 
- charges for any pre-hospitalisation treatment incurred within 180 days before the life assured is 
hospitalised for the organ transplant, provided the claim on the Living Organ Donor Transplant 

benefit is payable. We pay Specialist consultations, medications, diagnostic and laboratory tests, 
pre-harvesting laboratory tests and investigations;
- charges for the life assured’s Hospital Confinement in a Standard Room or Intensive Care Unit 
(ICU); 
- charges for the Surgical Procedure to remove the specified organ from the life assured’s body; 
- charges for the storage and transportation of the specified organ after the organ is removed from 
the life assured’s body; and 
- charges for any post-hospitalisation treatment and/or tests, as covered under Clause 1.4.4,
incurred within 365 days following the life assured’s discharge from the Hospital for the organ 
transplant including any post-transplant complications that may arise following the organ 
transplantation surgery of the life assured, provided the claim on the Living Organ Donor 
Transplant benefit is payable. 
We will not pay for charges incurred for any counselling service done. 
Payment for all eligible expenses incurred under the Living Organ Donor Transplant benefit shall be 
accumulated and paid up to the respective limit as set out in the Benefits Schedule.
1.4.3.9.2When the life assured is the organ recipient 
If the life assured undergoes a transplant of the following organs – kidney and/or liver, we pay the 
hospitalisation expenses, as set out in the Benefits Schedule, incurred by the organ donor, provided 
the donor does not have any insurance coverage for such expenses or receive any reimbursement for 
expenses incurred, from another source. 
The organ transplant must be carried out in a Hospital in Singapore. 
The life assured’s organ failure must have been first diagnosed by a Registered Medical Practitioner, 
or the symptoms of the organ failure must have first appeared after 24 months from the:
- Cover Start Date of the policy; or 
- date of reinstatement (if any),
whichever is later. 
We will assess this benefit together with the life assured’s Inpatient hospitalisation claims. This benefit 
is payable only if the Inpatient hospitalisation claim for the same Illness or Injury is payable.
We will pay for the following: 
- charges for the organ donor’s Hospital Confinement in a Standard Room or Intensive Care Unit 
(ICU); 
- charges for the Surgical Procedure to remove the specified organ from the organ donor’s body; 
and 
- charges for the storage and transportation of the specified organ after the organ is removed from 
the organ donor’s body. 
We will not pay for any pre- or post-hospitalisation and any counselling service expenses incurred by 
the organ donor.
Payment for all eligible expenses incurred under the Living Organ Donor Transplant benefit shall be 
accumulated and paid up to the respective limit as set out in the Benefits Schedule.
1.4.3.10 What do we pay for the Overseas Treatment benefit?
The benefits below are subject to the Deductible, Co-insurance and Pro-ration.
1.4.3.10.1 Emergency Medical Treatment while overseas
We pay for the hospitalisation expenses incurred by the life assured as a result of Emergency Medical 
Treatment while overseas.
Emergency Medical Treatment means urgent remedial treatment to avoid death, or serious impairment 
to the life assured’s health as a result of a Serious Illness or the onset of a serious condition.
The Pre and Post-hospitalisation benefit, incurred in Singapore or overseas, covered under Clause 
1.4.4 is payable only if the overseas hospitalisation claim for Emergency Medical Treatment is 
payable. 
We do not pay for the following:
- Day surgery;
- Outpatient Hospital benefits;
- Stem Cell Transplant treatment;
- Organ Transplant;
- Living Organ Donor Transplant; 
- Psychiatric Treatment;
- Continuation of the Autologous Bone Marrow Transplant Treatment for Multiple Myeloma;
- Inpatient and Outpatient Proton Beam Therapy; and
- Cell Tissue and Gene Therapy Treatment;
We will reimburse the lower of the actual Medically Necessary expenses incurred, or such amount 
that would be deemed Reasonable and Customary Expenses charged by a Hospital in Singapore for 
the same treatment.
We will convert bills for Hospital Confinement denominated in a foreign currency to our Singapore 
currency at our banker’s exchange rate as at the date of such bills.
This Clause 1.4.3.10.1 is subject to the exclusions stated in Clause 1.8.
1.4.3.10.2 Planned Overseas Medical Treatment
We pay for the hospitalisation or surgical (including day surgery) expenses incurred by the life assured 
for a planned medical treatment overseas in a Standard Room that is deemed to be Reasonable and 
Customary Expenses.
The life assured must obtain referrals for each hospitalisation or surgical procedure (including day 
surgery) from a MediSave-accredited institution/referral centre in Singapore for approved overseas 
hospitalisation as covered by MediSave. The list of MediSave-accredited institutions/referral centres 
can be found on our website <www.prudential.com.sg> and the overseas hospitals must have an 
approved working arrangement with the MediSave-accredited institution / referral centre in Singapore.
To confirm the countries and respective hospitals where treatment would be allowed, please contact 
an approved MediSave-accredited institution/referral centre in Singapore. 
We reserve the right to review and change the approved institution/referral centre as required, from 
time to time.
The Pre- and Post-hospitalisation expenses incurred in Singapore that are covered under Clause 
1.4.4 is payable only if the overseas hospitalisation or day surgery claim for Planned Overseas Medical 
Treatment is payable. 
We do not pay for the following:
- Outpatient Hospital benefits; 
- Living Organ Donor Transplant;
- Continuation of the Autologous Bone Marrow Transplant Treatment for Multiple Myeloma;
- Inpatient and Outpatient Proton Beam Therapy; 
- Cell Tissue and Gene Therapy Treatment; and
- Serious Pregnancy and Delivery-related Complications.
We will reimburse the lower of the actual Medically Necessary expenses incurred, or such amount 
that would be deemed Reasonable and Customary Expenses charged by a Hospital in Singapore for 
the same treatment. 
We will convert bills for Hospital Confinement or day surgery, denominated in a foreign currency to 
our Singapore currency at our banker’s exchange rate as at the date of such bills.
1.4.4 Pre and Post-Hospitalisation Benefits 
These benefits below are subject to the Deductible, Co-insurance and Pro-ration.
We will assess these benefits together with the related Inpatient hospitalisation or day surgery claim 
submitted. These benefits are payable only if the Inpatient hospitalisation or day surgery claim for the 
same Injury or Illness is payable.

1.4.4.1 What do we pay for Pre-hospitalisation Consultation and Diagnostic and 
Laboratory Services?
We pay pre-hospitalisation expenses incurred for general practitioner consultation (including 
outpatient telemedicine consultation*) resulting in a referral to a Specialist, Specialist consultation fees
and outpatient telemedicine consultation fees*, including the cost of medications and diagnostic and 
laboratory tests service fees, incurred within 180 days before the life assured’s Hospital Confinement
(including Psychiatric Treatment), confinement in a Community Hospital, Short Stay Ward+ or day 
surgery for treatment of the same Injury or Illness.
If there is more than one referral from one or more general practitioners, we will only pay one medical 
bill and this would be the last one before the Hospital Confinement (including Psychiatric Treatment), 
confinement in a Community Hospital, Short Stay Ward+ or day surgery for treatment of the same 
Injury or Illness. 
We do not pay pre-hospitalisation expenses incurred prior to the diagnosis of Serious Pregnancy and 
Delivery-related Complications.
*We will only reimburse outpatient telemedicine consultation fees conducted by telemedicine 
consultation providers (i) that are approved as active MOH sandbox providers under the MOH 
Licensing Experimentation and Adaptation Programme or (ii) from Restructured Hospitals. We will not 
pay for the cost of delivery or courier of medication.
+We pay for Pre-hospitalisation expenses incurred only if the Short Stay Ward is under a Singapore 
Restructured Hospital and the stay is a continuous period of at least 6 hours. 
1.4.4.2 What do we pay for Post-hospitalisation Follow-up Treatment and Services? 
We pay for the Post-hospitalisation expenses incurred for dressing, consultations (including outpatient 
telemedicine consultation*), physiotherapy performed at a Hospital or Specialist Clinic, diagnostic and 
laboratory test services and medications consumed within 365 days following the life assured’s 
discharge from Hospital Confinement (including Psychiatric Treatment), confinement in a Community 
Hospital, Short Stay Ward+ or day surgery for treatment of the same Injury or Illness. 
All alternative and traditional treatments are excluded. Examples of alternative and traditional 
treatments are, but not limited to, Traditional Chinese Medicine treatment, Chiropractic treatment and 
Osteopathic treatment.
*We will only reimburse outpatient telemedicine consultation fees conducted by telemedicine 
consultation providers (i) that are approved as active MOH sandbox providers under the MOH 
Licensing Experimentation and Adaptation Programme or (ii) from Restructured Hospitals. We will not 
pay for the cost of delivery or courier of medication.
+We pay for Post-hospitalisation expenses incurred only if the Short Stay Ward is under a Singapore 
Restructured Hospital and the stay is a continuous period of at least 6 hours. 
1.4.4.3 What do we pay for Post-hospitalisation Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy? 
We pay for the Post-hospitalisation treatment expenses incurred for hyperbaric oxygen therapy within 
365 days following the life assured’s discharge from Hospital Confinement, confinement in a 
Community Hospital or day surgery for treatment of the same Injury or Illness, up to the limit as set 
out in the Benefits Schedule. 
1.4.5 Outpatient Hospital benefits
These benefits cater to outpatient treatments (which do not require Hospital Confinement) as specified 
in the Benefits Schedule. 
The Deductible is not applicable to this benefit, but it is still subject to Co-insurance and Pro-ration.
1.4.5.1 What do we pay for Outpatient Cancer Treatment?
We reimburse you for the Reasonable and Customary Expenses incurred for approved outpatient 
cancer treatment at MediSave/MediShield Life accredited cancer treatment centres up to the 
maximum limit set out in the Benefits Schedule for your plan. Treatment refers to chemotherapy,
immunotherapy and radiotherapy for external (except hemi-body), brachytherapy, hemi-body and
stereotactic. We will also pay consultation fees, diagnostic and laboratory tests if it is ordered by the 
Registered Medical Practitioner before such treatment.
We do not pay for Inpatient and Outpatient Proton Beam Therapy and Cell Tissue & Gene Therapy 
Treatment under this benefit.
1.4.5.1.1 What do we pay for Cancer Drug Treatment?
We pay for cancer drug treatments that are on the Cancer Drug List (CDL), up to the treatment-specific 
claim limits. Cancer drug treatments not listed or not administered exactly as described in the CDL, 
are considered non-CDL and will not be claimable under PRUShield, unless otherwise stated in this 
Policy. 
The CDL currently covers most cancer drug treatments approved by the Health Sciences Authority 
(HSA). The cancer drug treatment claim limit is based on a multiple of the MediShield Life limit for the 
specific cancer drug treatment. For the latest CDL and MediShield Life limits, refer to the Cancer Drug 
List (CDL) on the MOH’s website. The MOH may update this from time to time. The revised list will be 
applicable to the Cancer Drug Treatment which occurred on and from the effective date of the revised 
list.
For each primary cancer, if the CDL treatment involves more than one drug, we allow drug omission 
or replacement with another CDL drug with the indication "for cancer treatment", only if they are due 
to intolerance or contraindications. In such cases, the claim limit of the original CDL treatment will 
apply.
For each primary cancer, where multiple cancer drug treatments are administered in a month, if any 
of the CDL treatments have an indication that states “monotherapy”, only CDL treatments with the 
indication “for cancer treatment” will be claimable in that month. Otherwise, the following will apply:
(a) If more than one of the cancer drug treatments administered in a month have an indication 
other than “for cancer treatment”, only CDL treatments with the indication “for cancer 
treatment” will be claimable in that month.
(b) If one or none of the cancer drug treatments administered in a month has an indication other 
than “for cancer treatment”, all CDL treatments will be claimable in that month.
To avoid any doubt, for CDL treatments, the indications refer to the clinical indications of the drug as 
specified in the CDL on MOH’s website. Non-CDL treatments will be considered as having an 
indication other than “for cancer treatment”.
For patients receiving treatment for only one primary cancer, we will pay up to the highest limit among 
the claimable CDL treatments received in that month. 
Multiple Primary Cancers are two or more cancers arising from different sites and/or are of a different 
histology or morphology group. A patient with cancer that has spread (metastasised) from the place 
where it first started to another part of the body will be considered as having a single primary cancer 
as the cancer in the other part of the body started from the original cancer. For example, cancer cells 
may spread from the breast (primary cancer) to form new tumours in the lung (secondary cancer / 
metastatic cancer). The new tumour in the lung will not be considered as another primary cancer.
Higher claim limits for patients receiving treatment for Multiple Primary Cancers are given on an 
application basis; doctors are to send the application form to MOH and to us for assessment of 
MediShield Life and PRUShield coverage respectively.
For patients receiving treatment for Multiple Primary Cancers, the maximum claim payable from a 
PRUShield plan for that month will be up to the sum of the highest claim limits among the claimable
CDL treatments received for each primary cancer in that month. 
1.4.5.1.2 What do we pay for Cancer Drug Services?
We pay for cancer drug services that are part of a cancer drug treatment (including treatments not on 
the CDL), such as consultations, scans, laboratory investigations, treatment preparation and 
administration, supportive care drugs and blood transfusions, up to specified claim limits. Cancer drug 
services incurred before the cancer is diagnosed, after the cancer has gone into remission, or once 
the course of treatment has ceased, will not be covered.
The Cancer Drug Services claim limit is based on a multiple of the MediShield Life limit for Cancer 
Drug Services. You can find the latest MediShield Life limit for Cancer Drug Services on the MOH’s 
website. The Ministry of Health of Singapore may update this from time to time. The revised limit will 
be applicable to the Cancer Drug Services incurred within the Policy Year of the revised limit.
This limit does not only apply to services related to cancer drug treatments on the CDL, meaning we 
will also pay even if the service was for a non-CDL cancer drug treatment. Supportive drugs should 
be claimed under this limit.
Higher claim limits for patients receiving treatment for Multiple Primary Cancers are given on an 
application basis; doctors are to send the application form to MOH and to us for assessment of 
MediShield Life and PRUShield coverage respectively.
We will double the claim limit for Cancer Drug Services if the patient had received treatment for Multiple 
Primary Cancers at any point in time within the same Policy Year. 
1.4.5.2 What do we pay for Outpatient Kidney Failure Treatment?
We reimburse you for the Reasonable and Customary Expenses incurred for approved outpatient 
kidney dialysis treatment at MediSave/MediShield Life accredited dialysis treatment centres and the 
cost of the Medically Necessary prescribed erythropoietin for chronic kidney failure. 
We will not apply a pro-ration factor for outpatient kidney dialysis, if the treatment received by the life 
assured was administered at any of the dialysis centres under the list as shown on our website 
<www.prudential.com.sg>
1.4.5.3 What do we pay for Immunosuppressants for Organ Transplant?
We reimburse you for the cost of the Medically Necessary Immunosuppressants prescribed as a result 
of an organ transplant and as part of the outpatient treatment to reduce the rate of rejection episodes. 
The Immunosuppressants refer to those approved under the MediShield Life Scheme and by MOH as 
the immunosuppressants for organ transplant.
1.4.5.4 Long-Term Parenteral Nutrition 
We reimburse the Reasonable and Customary expenses incurred for Long-Term Parenteral Nutrition. 
This includes the cost of parenteral nutrition bags and consumables necessary for administering LongTerm Parenteral Nutrition and that meets the claimable criteria under the MediShield Life Scheme
1.4.6 Other benefits
1.4.6.1 What do we pay for Final Expense Provision?
If the life assured dies during hospitalisation or within 30 days of discharge from the Hospital as a 
result of the cause of the hospitalisation, we will waive the Deductible and Co-insurance amounts up 
to maximum limits of the Final Expense Provision benefit for your type of plan as set out in the Benefits.
Schedule above. 
1.4.6.2 What do we pay for Serious Pregnancy and Delivery-related Complications?
We will reimburse expenses incurred if the life assured is hospitalised as a result of the pregnancy 
complication conditions listed below. These pregnancy complications must have been first diagnosed 
after 10 months from the:
- Cover Start Date of the policy; or
- date of reinstatement (if any),
whichever is later. 
We do not pay for delivery charges, except in the event of a Caesarean Section arising from one of 
the Serious Pregnancy and Delivery-related Complications listed below.
1) Ectopic pregnancy
This is a condition in which implantation of a fertilised ovum occurs outside the uterine cavity. The 
ectopic pregnancy must have been terminated by laparotomy or laparoscopic surgery. 
2) Pre-eclampsia and eclampsia
The diagnosis of pre-eclampsia or eclampsia by an obstetrician. 
3) Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (“DIC”)
The diagnosis of disseminated intravascular coagulation by an obstetrician
4) Miscarriage
Death of the foetus of the life assured after 13 weeks of pregnancy as a result of a sudden 
unforeseen and involuntary event and must not be due to a voluntary or malicious act. 
5) Fatty Liver during Pregnancy 
This is the condition of a severe acute fatty liver occurring during pregnancy and associated with 
acute liver failure where all of the following diagnostic conditions must be met:
- bilirubin is persistently elevated above 150 umol/L (10 mg/dL) for a period of at least 5 days; 
and 
- there is associated hepatic encephalopathy.
6) Amniotic Fluid Embolism 
This is a condition in which, following the infusion of amniotic fluid into the maternal circulation, 
there is the sudden development of acute respiratory distress and shock. The diagnosis must be 
confirmed by a Registered Medical Practitioner and supported with medical evidence of any 
combination of respiratory distress, cardiovascular collapse, disseminated intravascular 
coagulation, coma and lung scans showing embolisation.
7) Abruptio Placentae 
This is the separation of the normally implanted placenta after the 20th week of gestation and prior 
to the birth of the foetus, resulting in life threatening foetal distress and/or maternal shock. The 
diagnoses of Abruptio Placentae must be confirmed by a medical specialist and supported with 
medical evidence of Class 2 or Class 3 abruptio necessitating an emergency Caesarean section.
8) Postpartum Haemorrhage requiring Hysterectomy 
This is the condition of ongoing bleeding secondary to an unresponsive and atonic uterus, a 
ruptured uterus or a large cervical laceration extending into the uterus requiring surgical 
intervention in the form of a hysterectomy.
9) Gestational diabetes mellitus
The diagnosis of gestational diabetes mellitus by an obstetrician. The diagnosis was made 
through a 75g oral glucose tolerance test.
10) Placental insufficiency and Intrauterine growth restriction
The diagnosis, by an obstetrician, of placental insufficiency leading to intrauterine growth 
restriction.
11) Antepartum, intrapartum and postpartum haemorrhage
The diagnosis, by an obstetrician, of severe abnormal bleeding from the female genital tract at or 
after 24 weeks of pregnancy or during or after childbirth.
12) Placenta praevia
The diagnosis, by an obstetrician, of the presence of placental tissue extending over the internal 
cervical, resulting in a cesarean delivery.
13) Cervical incompetency
The diagnosis of cervical incompetency by an obstetrician.
14) Accreta placenta
The diagnosis of accreta placenta by an obstetrician.
15) Obstetric cholestasis
The diagnosis of obstetric cholestasis by an obstetrician.
16) Twin to twin transfusion syndrome
The diagnosis of twin to twin transfusion syndrome by an obstetrician.
17) Infection of amniotic sac and membranes
The diagnosis of an infection of the amniotic sac and membranes by an obstetrician.
18) Fourth degree perineal laceration 
The diagnosis of fourth degree perineal laceration by an obstetrician.
19) Uterine rupture
The diagnosis of uterine rupture by an obstetrician.
20) Postpartum inversion of uterus
The diagnosis of postpartum inversion of the uterus by an obstetrician.
21) Obstetric injury or damage to pelvic organs
The diagnosis of obstetric injury or damage to the pelvic organs by an obstetrician.
22) Complications resulting in a caesarean hysterectomy
The diagnosis of complications resulting in a caesarean hysterectomy by an obstetrician.
23) Retained placenta and membranes
The diagnosis of retained placenta and membranes by an obstetrician.
24) Abscess of breast
The diagnosis, by an obstetrician, of an abscess of breast associated with childbirth.
25) Hydatidiform mole and subsequent complications (including Choriocarcinoma)
The diagnosis, by an obstetrician, of hydatidiform mole and subsequent complications (including 
choriocarcinoma) 26) Medically necessary abortions
The diagnosis of medically necessary abortions by an obstetrician. However, medically necessary 
abortions due to a miscarriage that does not meet the definition of miscarriage under sub-benefit 
4) above will not be covered under this sub-benefit.
27) Still-birth
The diagnosis of still birth by an obstetrician.
28) Maternal death
The diagnosis of maternal death by an obstetrician.
We will pay for the conditions listed above under numbers 9 - 28, only if they are diagnosed by a 
Registered Medical Practitioner. 
This benefit is subject to the Deductible, Co-insurance and Pro-ration.
1.4.6.3 What do we pay for Congenital Abnormalities benefit?
For a life assured with congenital abnormalities, we pay for hospitalisation expenses incurred, up to 
the limit as set out in the Benefits Schedule, for Medically Necessary treatment relating to birth defects, 
including hereditary conditions and congenital sickness or abnormalities of the life assured. We will 
also pay for any pre- or post-hospitalisation expenses incurred in relation to the Congenital 
Abnormalities benefit.
To avoid any doubt, under this benefit, we do not pay expenses incurred for Cell Tissue and Gene 
Therapy Treatment relating to congenital abnormalities of the life assured.
These conditions must be first diagnosed by a Registered Medical Practitioner.
This benefit is subject to the Deductible, Co-insurance and Pro-ration.
For a female life assured’s biological child
For a female life assured’s biological child with congenital abnormalities, we pay for hospitalisation 
expenses incurred, up to the limit as set out in the Benefits Schedule, for Medically Necessary 
treatment relating to birth defects, including hereditary conditions and congenital sickness or 
abnormalities of the female life assured’s biological child during the first 24 months from the date of 
birth of the child. We will also pay for any pre- or post-hospitalisation expenses incurred in relation to 
the Congenital Abnormalities benefit.
These conditions must be first diagnosed by a Registered Medical Practitioner or symptoms first 
appear after 10 months from the Cover Start Date or date of reinstatement (if any).
This benefit only applies to a life assured who is female. 
We pay the hospitalisation expenses, as set out in the Benefits Schedule, provided the female life 
assured's biological child does not have any insurance coverage for such expenses or receive any 
reimbursement for expenses incurred, from another source. 
This benefit is subject to the Deductible, Co-insurance and Pro-ration.
1.4.6.4 What do we pay for Psychiatric Treatment? 
We pay for the medical expenses incurred, up to the limit as set out in the Benefits Schedule, if the 
life assured receives inpatient psychiatric treatments.
Payment for all eligible expenses incurred under the Psychiatric Treatment, including Short Stay Ward, 
shall be accumulated and paid up to the respective limit as set out in the Benefits Schedule.
This benefit is subject to the Deductible, Co-insurance and Pro-ration.
We will also pay for any pre- or post-hospitalisation expenses incurred in relation to inpatient 
psychiatric treatments.
1.4.6.5 What do we pay for Short Stay Ward? 
We pay for the cost of Short Stay Ward even if it does not result in Hospital Confinement of the life 
assured.If the life assured is hospitalised and is confined to more than one ward type during his hospitalisation, 
the deductible applied is based on the highest ward class the life assured had stayed in. 
This benefit is subject to the Deductible, Co-insurance and Pro-ration.
We will also pay for any pre- or post-hospitalisation expenses incurred in relation to a Short Stay Ward
only under a Singapore Restructured Hospital and the stay is a continuous period of at least six hours. 
1.4.6.6 What is the Future Insurance Option at life events? 
If this policy was purchased on standard terms, (i.e. you were not given our Offer of Conditional 
Acceptance where the life assured was offered special terms and conditions for acceptance of the 
proposal) then you can buy another policy on the life assured (or if you are the life assured then you 
can buy another policy on your own life), without evidence of good health, when the life assured 
experiences any of the following life events: 
- marriage;
- becoming a parent;
- adoption of a child through legal means;
- death of a spouse;
- divorce; 
- marriage of his/her child;
- his/her child entering primary school; or
- his/her child entering secondary school.
The new policy can be an endowment, whole life or term policy providing death, accelerated Terminal 
Illness and Disability benefits without any Future Insurance Option benefit within. The new policy’s 
sum assured cannot be more than the amount set out in the Benefits Schedule.
The life assured can exercise this Future Insurance Option twice, i.e. on two separate life events, 
provided:
- all premiums due under this policy are paid; 
- the life assured is under 45 years old;
- this policy has not terminated, for any reason;
- no claim has been made under this policy or PRUExtra policy (if any); 
- the total sum assured of the new policies does not exceed the amount set out in the Benefits
Schedule; and
- the new policy is purchased within 3 months from the date of the relevant life event.
1.4.6.7 What do we pay for Continuation of the Autologous Bone Marrow Transplant 
Treatment for Multiple Myeloma?
We reimburse for the Reasonable and Customary Expenses incurred, up to the limits as set out in the 
Benefits Schedule, if the life assured undergoes Medically Necessary Continuation of the Autologous 
Bone Marrow Transplant Treatment for Multiple Myeloma for the following stages of the treatment:
- Stem-cell mobilisation 
- Harvesting healthy stem cells
- Pre-transplant workup
- Use of high dosage chemotherapeutic drugs to destroy cancerous cells
- Engraftment of healthy stem cells
- Post-transplant monitoring 
We will pay for all treatment costs, including consultation, clinical and lab investigations, consumables 
and drugs needed for the Continuation of Autologous Bone Marrow Transplant Treatment for Multiple 
Myeloma in the outpatient setting.
This applies strictly to treatment in the outpatient setting only. If the life assured requires certain phases 
of bone marrow transplant in the inpatient setting, these treatments will be covered under the 
prevailing inpatient limits.
This benefit is subject to the Deductible, Co-insurance and Pro-ration.
We will not pay for any pre or post-hospitalisation expenses incurred in relation to the Autologous 
Bone Marrow Transplant Treatment for Multiple Myeloma. 1.4.6.8 What do we pay for Inpatient and Outpatient Proton Beam Therapy?
We reimburse for the Reasonable and Customary Expenses incurred, up to the limits as set out in the 
Benefits Schedule, when the life assured undergoes Proton Beam Therapy treatment as an Inpatient, 
day surgery or Outpatient procedure, treated by a Registered Medical Practitioner in a Hospital or 
MediSave/MediShield Life accredited cancer treatment centres. 
This benefit is subject to the Deductible, Co-insurance and Pro-ration.
We will only cover proton beam therapy treatment if it is administered as an approved proton beam 
therapy indication as stated on the MOH's website, as may be amended from time to time.
We will also reimburse consultation fees, diagnostic and laboratory tests if it is ordered by the 
Registered Medical Practitioner before the life assured undergoes this treatment.
We will not pay for any pre- or post-hospitalisation expenses incurred in relation to Outpatient Proton 
Beam Therapy.
1.4.6.9 What do we pay for Cell Tissue and Gene Therapy Treatment? 
We reimburse the Reasonable and Customary Expenses incurred, up to the limits as set out in the 
Benefits Schedule, when the life assured undergoes Cell Tissue and Gene Therapy Treatment as an 
Inpatient or day surgery procedure, as long as the following conditions are met:
- the Cell Tissue and Gene Therapy Treatment must be approved by MOH and the Health Science 
Authority (HSA) and should satisfy all other guidelines of the Cell Tissue and Gene Therapy 
Treatment regulations, as issued by MOH; and
- the attending Registered Medical Practitioner must recommend in writing that the Cell Tissue and 
Gene Therapy Treatment is Medically Necessary.
This benefit is subject to the Deductible, Co-insurance and Pro-ration.
When we work out the benefit limit that we will pay for the Cell Tissue and Gene Therapy Treatment, 
we add all Reasonable and Customary Expenses incurred for the treatment (including pre- and posthospitalisation treatment) under this benefit. 
1.4.6.10 What is the Refresh benefit? 
If the life assured has exceeded the Policy Year Limit and is hospitalised subsequently for an Illness
or Injury that is not directly or indirectly related to any existing or past Illnesses or Injuries within the 
same Policy Year, we will reset the Policy Year Limit and any benefit sub-limit (if applicable) for that 
Policy Year. The Refresh benefit will not apply if there is any available balance in the existing Policy 
Year Limit at the time of an inpatient hospitalisation. 
The Policy Year Limit will be refreshed only once in the same Policy Year.
If the refreshed Policy Year Limit is not used within the Policy Year, it cannot be carried forward to the 
next Policy Year.
The Refresh benefit cannot exceed the Policy Year Limit and any benefit sub-limit (if applicable).
The Refresh benefit is only applicable for inpatient hospitalisation. We will not pay for any outpatient, 
day surgery, pre- or post-hospitalisation expenses or for any other inpatient treatment related to a 
previously known condition under the Refresh benefit.
Claims submitted under Refresh benefit will be on a reimbursement basis only (if applicable).
We have the right to determine whether or not the Illness or Injury is directly or indirectly related to an 
existing or past Illness or Injury.
1.5 Can I change my plan?
You can apply to change to a higher or lower plan (where applicable) by giving us written notification. 
When you apply to change to a higher plan, the life assured must give us satisfactory evidence of a 
health condition that is acceptable to us.Once we have changed your plan to the new plan, medical expenses incurred from the Cover Start 
Date shown in the new Policy Certificate will be processed according to the terms and conditions of 
the new plan, including the deductible and policy/benefit limits which will apply from the Cover Start 
Date of the new plan.
When you change to a higher plan, some of the policy benefits require the life assured to wait out a 
period of time before such benefits will be covered (Waiting Period). This Waiting Period commences 
from the Cover Start Date of the new plan. If the life assured claims for hospitalisation or medical 
treatment that occurred within this Waiting Period, we will assess such claims according to the terms 
and conditions of the immediate preceding plan instead of the new plan. 
For any claim payable, we will determine the claim amount based on the Policy Year Limit and Proration (if applicable) of the plan that is applicable on the date of the Hospital admission and/or medical 
expense bill.
If the plan you have applied to change to is withdrawn, we reserve the right to change your plan to a 
similar medical product that is available at the time of renewal. 
You must use our appropriate application form and meet the conditions on it. We will notify you if we 
accept your application. 
1.6 How to make a claim?
You must authorise the MediSave/MediShield Life accredited Hospitals or treatment centres to submit 
all eligible medical bills relating to the following benefits, electronically to us:
- Inpatient and Day Surgery benefits (refer to Clause 1.4.3)
- Outpatient Hospital benefits (refer to Clause 1.4.5)
For the Overseas Treatment benefit (refer to Clause 1.4.3.10) and the non-insured living organ donor 
covered under the Living Organ Donor Transplant benefit (refer to Clause 1.4.3.9), we require the 
following to be submitted:
- a completed PRUShield claim form;
- original final Hospital bills and payment receipts;
- medical report from the life assured’s Registered Medical Practitioner;
- a completed Clinical Abstract Application form;
- death certificate issued by the relevant authority, if applicable;
- a certified true copy of the identification documents of the claimant, if applicable; 
- evidence that the person is entitled to receive the payment (e.g. birth certificate, marriage 
certificate, the deceased’s last will, Letter of Administration or Probate, Trust Deed, etc.), if 
applicable; and 
- any documentary proof as required by us. 
If the life assured is a foreigner who is not a Singapore Permanent Resident, you have to submit the 
following in addition to the above documents to us:
- a certified true copy of the life assured’s:
- Eligible Valid Pass; and
- travel documents or passport.
- Any documentary proof as required by us. 
Eligible Valid Pass is a pass recognised by the Immigration & Checkpoints Authority (ICA) and the 
Ministry of Manpower (MOM). The list of Eligible Valid Passes, acceptable by us, is in the enclosed 
Addendum.
To make a claim for the life assured’s Pre- and Post-hospitalisation expenses, here are the 
requirements:
- the PRUShield Inpatient or day surgery claim must have already been filed and approved; 
- a completed PRUShield Pre and Post-hospitalisation claim form;
- medical report from the life assured’s Registered Medical Practitioner;
- laboratory reports;
- general practitioner’s referral letter;
- a completed Clinical Abstract Application form;
- original Hospital bill, tax invoice and payment receipts for the same Injury or Illness; and
- other medical information as required by us.
We will consider Pre and Post-Hospitalisation expenses claims only if PRUShield Inpatient 
hospitalisation and day surgery claims are payable for the same Injury or Illness.
You should file your claims within 180 days from the date of the medical bills.
We reserve the right to ask you or your legal representative to provide, at your own expense, more 
documents or evidence to our satisfaction to help us assess your claim and to appoint a Registered
Medical Practitioner to re-examine the life assured.
If you make a claim for treatment of any Injury or Illness as a result of hazardous activities or sports, 
you must provide the name of the licensed organisation carrying out these hazardous activities or 
sports for our verification. 
We also reserve the right to adjust any duration of Hospital Confinement or Surgical Procedure or 
hospitalisation expenses which, in the opinion of our medical advisers, is considered as excessive. 
The duration of Hospital Confinement and Surgical Procedure should not exceed the general level by 
Hospitals of similar standing in the same locality where the charges are incurred, taking into 
consideration similar or comparable treatment, services or supplies to individuals of the same sex and 
of comparable age, for similar Illness or Injury.
For medical treatment received outside of Singapore, we assess the benefits on the basis of similar 
treatment that is reasonably and customarily charged by a Hospital in Singapore.
You must co-operate fully with us and our medical advisers. You must disclose fully and faithfully all 
material facts and matters which the life assured knows or ought to know and if required, on our 
request, sign any document to allow us to obtain relevant information, at your expense, from any 
Registered Medical Practitioner, Hospital or other sources. 
All documents submitted that are not in English must be translated to English by an accredited 
translator at your own or the claimant's expense.
1.7 Who do we pay?
Claims processed electronically will be paid to the Hospital. Otherwise, we pay you, the policyowner
or the MediSave account that is used to pay the bill, provided that we receive to our satisfaction, 
evidence of your entitlement.
The claims amount will be paid out provided: 
- your claim amount has not exceeded the Policy Year limit or benefit limit as set out in the Benefits 
Schedule; and
- your current premium has been paid. 
1.8 What is not covered?
We do not pay for any benefits which are directly or indirectly related to any of the following 
circumstances: 
- All expenses incurred by a life assured for the period of Hospital Confinement if admission into a 
Hospital is before the Cover Start Date of the policy;
- Treatment or diagnosis of any Serious Illness for which the life assured received medical 
treatment (including follow-up and consultations) during the period of 12 months prior to the Cover 
Start Date of the policy;
- Any pre-existing Illnesses, diseases or impairments from which the life assured is suffering from 
prior to the Cover Start Date of the policy, unless they were declared in the proposal and 
specifically accepted by us. A pre-existing condition is the existence of any signs or symptoms for 
which treatment, medication, consultation, advice or diagnosis has been sought or received by 
the life assured or would have caused an ordinary prudent person to seek treatment, diagnosis 
or cure, prior to the Cover Start Date of this benefit or the date of reinstatement (if any), whichever 
is later;
- Treatment relating to birth defects, including hereditary conditions and congenital sickness or 
abnormalities except when it is covered under Clause 1.4.6.3, the “Congenital Abnormalities 
benefit”; 

- Overseas medical treatment (except in the event that a life assured requires Inpatient Hospital 
treatment as a result of Emergency Medical Treatment while overseas or under the Planned 
Overseas Medical Treatment benefit (refer to Clause 1.4.3.10). This exception is, however, still 
subject to all the other exclusions stated in this Clause 1.8);
- Mental illness and personality disorders except when it is covered under the “Psychiatric 
Treatment benefit” as set out in Clause 1.4.6.4. 
- Pregnancy, childbirth and any complications as a result of pregnancy and childbirth except 
complications covered under Clause 1.4.6.2, the “Serious Pregnancy and Delivery-related 
Complications benefit”;
- Elective abortion; threatened abortion; miscarriage occurring within 13 weeks of pregnancy; birth 
control*, sterilisation*, infertility*, sub-fertility*, impotence treatment, assisted conception or any 
contraceptive treatment;
(* for males and females) 
- Treatment of sexually transmitted diseases;
- Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS), AIDS-related complex or infection by Human 
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) except HIV Due to Blood Transfusion and Occupationally Acquired 
HIV as set out in Clause 1.10.9;
- Treatment of self-inflicted injuries, or injuries resulting from attempted suicide;
- Treatment directly or indirectly arising from drug or alcohol misuse;
- Cosmetic or plastic surgery except when such surgery is necessary for the repair of damage 
caused solely by an accident;
- All dental treatment except those covered under Clause 1.4.3.6 “Accidental Inpatient Dental 
Treatment”;
- Ambulance fee;
- Sex change operations;
- Purchase of kidney dialysis machine, replacement organ, iron-lung, prosthesis and other special 
appliances including the location, transport and associated administration costs of such special 
appliances;
- Optional items which are outside the scope of treatment;
- Rest cures, hospice care, home or outpatient nursing or palliative care (except when it is covered
by us), convalescent care in convalescent or nursing homes, sanatoriums or similar 
establishments, outpatient rehabilitation services such as counselling and physical rehabilitation;
- Vaccination, other than Inpatient Hospital treatment due to the adverse effects caused by 
vaccinations which are authorised by the Singapore Health Sciences Authority and provided that 
such vaccinations have been administered on the recommendation of a medical practitioner duly 
licensed by Singapore Medical Council;
- Treatment of Injuries arising from direct participation in civil commotion, riots or strikes;
- Treatment of Injuries arising directly or indirectly from nuclear fallout, terrorism, war and related 
risks;
- Treatment for which the life assured had received work injury compensation under the Work Injury 
Compensation Act 2019 and other forms of insurance coverage; 
- Hospitalisation primarily for medical services such as but not limited to X-ray, CT or MRI scans, 
medical check-up or health screening or other investigations which can routinely be conducted 
on an outpatient basis (unless otherwise covered under the terms and conditions of the 
PRUShield policy, as listed in the Benefits Schedule set out in Clause 1.4.1); 
- Treatment of Illness or Injury resulting from the life assured engaging in any hazardous activities 
or sports in a professional capacity; or where the life assured would or could earn or earns income 
or remuneration in these hazardous activities or sports;
- Treatment of Illness or Injury caused by any hazardous activities or sports unless carried out 
legally under the supervision of licensed organisations. (This exception is however still subject to 
all the other exclusions stated in this Clause 1.8);
- Treatment for weight reduction, weight improvement, or obesity or any Injury or Illness which 
arises from, or is related to, or a consequence of weight reduction, weight improvement, or obesity 
in any way, such as, but not limited to, the use of gastric banding or stapling, the removal of fat 
or surplus tissue from any part of the body, whether or not needed for medical or psychological 
reasons;
- Violation or attempted violation of law, resistance to lawful arrest or any resultant imprisonment;
- Non-medical items such as, but not limited to, parking fees, Hospital Administration and 
Registration fees, laundry, rental of television, newspaper, medical report fees. 
- Experimental or pioneering medical or surgical techniques, clinical trials for drugs or medical 
devices and appliances (such as, but not limited to, ergonomic tables and chairs) not approved 
by MOH;
- Any genetic testing and any procedure done as a result of genetic testing, prophylactic measures
that are not therapeutic in nature, primary prevention (refers to medical services for generally 
healthy individuals to prevent a disease from ever occurring, in the absence of medical 
indications, eg. general medical / health screening packages, general physical checkups, 
vaccinations, etc.), surveillance screening, diagnostic, investigation tests or checks, except:
- Cell Tissue and Gene Therapy Treatment as set out in Clause 1.4.6.9;
- any genetic testing that is Medically Necessary and has justification for prognostication and 
treatment selection as a result of a confirmed diagnosis; 
- the expenses incurred for Medically Necessary treatment relating to the removal of cysts, 
polyps and/or lumps (even if they are benign in nature); or
- otherwise expressly allowed by MediShield Life Claims Rules specified on the MOH’s 
website;
- Outpatient treatment and medical services except when it is covered under the “Outpatient 
Hospital benefits” as listed in the Benefits Schedule set out in Clause 1.4.1;
- Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, including but 
not limited to vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless prescribed by a Registered 
Medical Practitioner as part of the hospitalisation (including Post-hospitalisation Follow-up 
Treatment and Services);
- All other exclusions that apply to the MediShield Life Scheme as set out in the relevant legislation, 
regulations and guidelines, unless we say otherwise under this Policy.
The MediShield Life Scheme refers to the scheme administered by the CPF Board and is governed 
by the MediShield Life Scheme Act 2015 as amended from time to time.
We do not pay for any expenses for any treatment, service or item incurred for the Hospital 
Confinement of a life assured, received on or after 27 March 2020 but before 20 October 2020 for 
COVID-19 infection or otherwise, if the life assured is an at-risk traveller while being treated for COVID19 infection.
We also do not pay for any expenses for any treatment, service or item incurred for the Hospital 
Confinement of a life assured received on or after 27 March 2020 but before 20 October 2020, if the 
life assured is an at-risk traveller who is:
(i) admitted to the Hospital to test for suspected COVID-19 infection, 
(ii) whose test results for COVID-19 infection is negative, and 
(iii) does not need in-patient treatment for any other medical condition.
We do not pay for any treatment, service or item that is required for any other medical condition 
occurring over the same period as the COVID-19 treatment for an at-risk traveller. 
An “at-risk traveller” means a life assured who
(i) Travelled out of Singapore on or after 27 March 2020 and travelled against any travel advisory 
concerning the risk of COVID-19 infection issued by MOH and published on its website (which 
may be changed, added or otherwise modified from time to time); and
(ii) Began to show symptoms consistent with the COVID-19 infection within the possible incubation 
period. The possible incubation period refers to the period starting from when the life assured
leaves Singapore, at the start of his overseas trip, and ending on and including the 14th day after 
his arrival in Singapore, at the end of his overseas trip.
“COVID-19” means the infectious disease known as Coronavirus Disease 2019.
1.9 General Conditions
1.9.1 Territorial cover 
We will pay for all hospitalisation claims incurred in Singapore, subject to the terms and conditions of 
this Policy document.
Subject to Clause 1.8, for hospitalisation claims incurred overseas, we will pay, provided the 
hospitalisation expenses are payable under the Emergency Medical Treatment while overseas or 
Planned Overseas Medical Treatment benefits. 1.9.2 Payer of last resort 
If you have other medical insurance which allows you to claim for the reimbursement of your medical 
expenses, you must first seek reimbursement from these policies before making any claim under this 
policy. If you have received payment under this policy, you have to file a claim with your other medical 
insurer who will reimburse us. 
The total reimbursement made to you must not exceed the actual expenses incurred. 
We do not pay for claims where the medical expenses have been paid by other medical insurance or 
you have received reimbursement from any other source.
1.9.3 Declaration of age
If the age of the life assured is stated wrongly in your proposal form, we adjust the premium payable. 
We refund any excess premium paid and will request for any shortfall in premium to be made up. 
1.9.4 Guaranteed renewability
We guarantee that this policy is renewable yearly for as long as you live, provided you pay the 
premiums within the Grace Period and your policy has not been terminated (as set out in Clause 
1.9.7) and subject to the terms as set out in Clause 1.9.9, 1.9.10 & 1.9.13. 
1.9.5 Right to vary premium
We reserve the right to vary the premium at any time. However, we will give you 30 days’ written notice 
before doing so. 
1.9.6 No Waiver 
If we do not enforce any of the provisions of this Policy document at any time, this shall not affect the 
validity of this Policy document. We will still have the right to enforce each and every provision even if 
we have not done so in the past. 
1.9.7 Termination of benefit
All the benefits under your policy shall terminate when one of the following occurs:
- you cancel your policy, after the expiry of the Review Period, by giving us 30 days’ written notice; 
- the commencement of your MediSave-approved integrated shield plan with another insurer;
- the life assured renounces his/her Singapore citizenship or Singapore Permanent Residence 
status;
- your premium is not received after the Grace Period; or
- the life assured dies. 
In addition to the above, for a life assured who is a foreigner and is not a Singapore Permanent 
Resident, the policy will also terminate when: 
- the life assured is without an Eligible Valid Pass for more than 60 days after the Eligible Valid 
Pass has expired or is terminated; or 
- you stop paying your premiums via GIRO or credit card. 
To avoid any doubt, if the life assured is without an Eligible Valid Pass for more than 60 days after the 
Eligible Valid Pass has expired or is terminated, the termination date of this Policy will be the date of 
expiry or termination of the Eligible Valid Pass. Any claims incurred after this expiry or termination date 
will not be valid. This includes any claims incurred during the 60-day period.
We will refund the pro-rated premiums, regardless of any payout during the Policy Year. 
Except in the situation where the life assured dies, if your policy terminates before the next Premium 
Due Date, and no claim has been paid during that Policy Year, we will refund the pro-rated premium 
based on the number of unused days for the rest of that Policy Year, to the MediSave account. 
If you pay part of your premium in cash, then the amounts we refund will be proportionate to the 
amount we deduct from the MediSave account and the amount we collect from you in cash.
Example
If your premium is made up of 80% from the MediSave account and you pay the remainder of 20% 
in cash, then the refund of unused premium will be in the same proportion – meaning 80% returned 
to the MediSave account and 20% paid to you. We or the CPF Board (as the case may be) will determine the effective date of termination of your 
policy.
In the event of such termination, you shall have no further claims or rights against us under your policy, 
except as specifically stated otherwise in this Policy document.
To avoid any doubt, the termination of your Policy by you or us shall not affect the insurance coverage 
under MediShield Life. The life assured will continue to be insured under the MediShield Life Scheme 
with the CPF Board as long as the life assured is eligible for the scheme. 
1.9.8 Reinstatement of your Policy 
You may apply to reinstate your policy if: 
- you pay all the required premiums; and
- you give us satisfactory evidence of the health of the life assured. You must pay for the costs 
involved in this.
We will not cover any claim incurred before the effective date of the reinstatement of the policy, unless 
the claim was declared in the reinstatement form and specifically accepted by us.
To apply you must use our appropriate application form and meet the conditions on it. We will notify 
you if we accept your application. 
1.9.9 Change of citizenship, residency status or occupation for Foreigners 
You must inform us as soon as possible when the life assured’s citizenship or residency status 
changes in any way. You must submit documentary proof of your change of citizenship. 
If the life assured is a foreigner who is not a Singapore Permanent Resident and is without an Eligible 
Valid Pass for more than 60 days after the Pass expired/ terminated, this policy will terminate. 
Therefore, you must inform us as soon as possible when the Eligible Valid Pass expires or is 
terminated.
If the life assured is a Work Permit holder and if they change their occupation to one that is not within 
the acceptable occupation classes listed by us, the policy will be terminated. You must inform us as 
soon as possible when the life assured changes occupation. 
1.9.10 Changes to Policy Benefits / Conditions 
We reserve the right to vary the policy benefits, features, conditions and/or name at any time. This 
includes mandatory changes to the policy benefits, features, guidelines and/or conditions as may be 
introduced by MOH, the Central Provident Fund Board or any other regulatory authority on MediShield 
Life.
Also, if PRUShield is not available when your policy is due for renewal, we reserve the right to renew 
your policy to a similar medical product that is available at the time of renewal. 
We will give you 30 days’ written notice before doing so. However, such mandatory changes to the 
policy benefits, features, guidelines and/or conditions stipulated by the relevant regulatory authority 
will immediately apply to your policy without written notice given to you.
Any such changes will be subject to compliance with the conditions for MediSave-approved medical
insurance plan issued by the MOH.
1.9.11 Special terms and conditions
If we have accepted your proposal for this policy with special terms and conditions, we give you a copy 
of our Offer of Conditional Acceptance which contains the special terms and conditions. The special 
terms and conditions shown on our Offer of Conditional Acceptance become part of your policy. 
The Offer of Conditional Acceptance with the special terms and conditions will continue to be part of 
your policy at each subsequent renewal unless otherwise informed in writing by us.
1.9.12 Currency in use
Unless otherwise stated, all premiums and benefits are payable in Singapore dollars. 1.9.13 Policy becomes void
We may declare your policy void if:
- the information given or any written statement you provided to us before the Cover Start Date of 
the policy (or at any application for reinstatement) is untrue in any respect; or 
- any material fact affecting the risk is incorrectly stated or represented to us or is omitted from any 
of the documents you submitted to us.
If no claim has been paid, we will refund the total premium paid to the MediSave account with the 
Central Provident Fund Board.
If we have paid any claim previously, we will only refund the premium paid for the renewal of your 
policy after the date of the last claim.
1.9.14 Governing Law
This policy is governed by and interpreted according to the laws of the Republic of Singapore. 
1.10 Definitions 
1.10.1 Accident
An event caused by violent, external and visible means and caused solely and independently of any 
other means. 
1.10.2 Benefit Limit in the Benefit Schedule
If a supplementary plan (like PRUExtra) is also purchased, the Benefit Limit is applied to both the 
main plan (PRUShield) and supplementary plan (PRUExtra).
1.10.3 Co-insurance
Co-insurance is the amount that you need to co-pay after the Deductible is met. The Co-insurance 
percentages for the various benefits under this policy are stated in the Benefits Schedule. Coinsurance is applicable to all the benefits under this policy except for Final Expense Benefits.
1.10.4 Community Hospitals 
A Community Hospital is one that is registered and classified under the category of Community 
Hospitals with MOH, Singapore.
1.10.5 Cover Start Date
The Cover Start Date is the date of commencement of insurance coverage of your policy and is shown 
on your Policy Certificate. 
1.10.6 Deductible
This is the part of the claimable amount that the policyowner is liable for before any benefits are 
payable under this policy. The Deductible amounts for the various benefits under this policy are stated 
in the Benefits Schedule.
1.10.7 Emergency
Emergency is when urgent remedial treatment is needed and is Medically Necessary to avoid death 
or serious impairment to the life assured’s health as a result of a Serious Illness or the onset of a 
serious condition.
1.10.8 Grace Period
You have 90 days from the Premium Due Date to pay your premiums. This is the Grace Period. 
1.10.9 HIV Due to Blood Transfusion and Occupationally Acquired HIV
A) Infection with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) through a blood transfusion, provided 
that all of the following conditions are met:
- The blood transfusion was Medically Necessary or given as part of a medical treatment; 
- The blood transfusion was received in Singapore after the Cover Start Date of the policy or 
the date of reinstatement (if any), whichever is the later; and
- The source of the infection is established to be from the Institution that provided the blood 
transfusion and the Institution is able to trace the origin of the HIV tainted blood. 
B) Infection with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) which resulted from an accident occurring 
after the Issue Date, Cover Start Date of the policy or the date of reinstatement (if any), whichever 
is the later whilst the Insured was carrying out the normal professional duties of his or her 
occupation in Singapore, provided that all of the following are proven to the Company’s 
satisfaction:
- Proof that the accident involved a definite source of the HIV infected fluids; 
- Proof of sero-conversion from HIV negative to HIV positive occurring during the 180 days 
after the documented accident. This proof must include a negative HIV antibody test 
conducted within 5 days of the accident; and
- HIV infection resulting from any other means including sexual activity and the use of 
intravenous drugs is excluded.
Reimbursement of medical expenses under this benefit is only payable when the occupation of 
the life assured is a medical practitioner, housemen in a Hospital, medical student, state 
registered nurse, medical laboratory technician, dentist (surgeon and nurse) or paramedical 
worker, working in a medical centre or clinic (in Singapore).   

1.10.10 Hospital 
Hospital means a facility which satisfies all of the following:
a) is a licensed, lawfully operating institution duly constituted and registered as a Hospital with the 
MOH or in the case of a Hospital overseas, registered with its local health authority;
b) is open at all times;
c) is operated mainly to diagnose and treat disabilities on an Inpatient basis and at the patient’s 
expense;
d) has organised facilities for major surgery;
e) has a staff of one or more doctors on call at all times;
f) has 24-hour nursing services by or under the supervision of registered nurses;
g) is not a skilled nursing facility, clinic, place for treatment of alcoholism or drug abuse, nursing 
home, rest home, convalescent home, Community Hospital, hospice, home for the aged, place 
for the treatment of mental disorders or a similar establishment; and
h) maintains a daily medical report for each patient, which is accessible to our medical advisers. 
The lists of Singapore Restructured and Private Hospitals can be found on our website < 
www.prudential.com.sg.>
1.10.11 Hospital Confinement 
Hospital Confinement means a continuous period of time, lasting at least 6 hours, where normal ward
is charged, during which it is Medically Necessary for the life assured to be confined to a Hospital. 
1.10.12 (a) Illness
Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal 
physiological functions and requires medical treatment. 
(b) Injury
Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding Illness or disease solely and directly caused 
by external, violent, visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a Registered Medical 
Practitioner.
1.10.13 Inpatient
An Inpatient is a person who is under Hospital Confinement. 
1.10.14 Medical Adviser
A Medical Adviser is someone who gives advice relating to the science or practice of medicine and 
surgery. 
1.10.15 Medically Necessary
Medically Necessary means treatments, services or expenses incurred which are:
- in the opinion of a Specialist is appropriate and consistent with the symptoms, findings, diagnosis 
and other relevant clinical circumstances of the Illness. The treatment must be provided in 
accordance with generally accepted medical practice in Singapore;
- in accordance with the standards of good medical practice, consistent with current standard of  
professional medical care, and of proven medical benefits;- approved by the Institutional Review Board, the Centre of Medical Device Regulation, Health 
Sciences Authority (HSA) or other relevant authority in Singapore;
- not for the convenience of the Life Assured or Registered Medical Practitioner, and unable to be 
reasonably rendered out of a Hospital, Community Hospital or similar establishments;
- not of an experimental, investigational or research nature (including but not limited to 
experimental, pioneering medical or surgical techniques and medical devices, and medical trials 
for medicinal products, whether or not these trials have a clinical trial certificate issued by the 
Health Sciences Authority or other relevant authority in Singapore ); and
- not for preventive or screening nature or for health enhancement (including but not limited to 
dietary replacement or supplement) in purpose.
We have the right to determine whether or not a treatment, service or expense is Medically Necessary.
1.10.16 MediShield Life 
MediShield Life is mandatory for all Singapore Citizens and Permanent residents. It is the basic tier of 
insurance protection scheme operated by the CPF Board which helps Singaporeans and Singapore 
Permanent Residents to meet their hospitalisation costs in the class B2 or C wards of a Hospital. 
1.10.17 MOH
MOH means the Ministry of Health in Singapore.
1.10.18 Multiple Primary Cancers
Multiple Primary Cancers mean two or more cancers arising from different sites and/or are of a 
different histology or morphology group.
1.10.19 Panel Providers
Our Panel Providers consist of participating specialists on the PRUPanel Connect programme who 
provide inpatient or day surgery treatment at Panel Healthcare Institutions. 
Panel Healthcare Institutions (Panel HI) refer to:
- all restructured Hospitals and treatment centres
- participating private Hospitals; and
- participating private treatment centres, 
that appear on PRUPanel Connect on our website
Participating specialists refer to Registered Medical Practitioners and Specialists that appear on 
PRUPanel Connect on our website.
1.10.20 Policy Year 
Policy Year means a period of 12 months from the Cover Start Date or renewal of the life assured’s 
insurance cover under PRUShield. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Policy document, the 
life assured’s insurance cover under this policy shall, be renewed yearly on the Premium Due Date.
1.10.21 Policy Year Limit
The Policy Year Limit is the maximum claimable amount that the life assured can claim in one Policy 
Year from all the benefits in this plan. If you have a PRUShield Premier plan, the Policy Year Limit is 
$2,000,000 provided all claims within the same Policy Year are incurred at Panel Providers.
Any claim that you make under your MediShield Life plan will also be added to the claims for the year 
and reduce the remaining amount on your PRUShield’s Policy Year Limit.
If Hospital Confinement or non-Inpatient medical expenses flow over to the next policy year, the claim 
for a given medical bill will be processed subject to the Policy Year Limit of the previous year. This 
means that for medical expenses due to Hospital Confinement, the claim amount will be determined 
based on the Policy Year Limit applicable at the date of Hospital admission. If the Policy Year Limit is 
reached, we do not pay the claim utilising the Policy Year Limit of the next Policy Year even if the 
Hospital Confinement period flows over to the next Policy Year. 
For non-Inpatient medical expenses, the claim amount will be determined based on the Policy Year 
Limit applicable on the date the medical expenses were incurred regardless of the actual date of usage 
of such medical services.

1.10.22 Pro-ration
Pro-ration factors are applied to reduce Inpatient, outpatient, day surgery Hospital bills and Pre and 
Post-hospitalisation expenses in higher-class wards, private Hospitals (as classified by the MOH) or 
private clinics/medical institutions in the claims computation to suit the lower plan.
Pro-ration for overseas Government Hospitals
Overseas Government Hospitals are considered private hospitals. If you have a PRUShield Plus policy 
we will apply the pro-ration factor to your medical expenses incurred in all overseas hospitals. 
1.10.23 Reasonable and Customary Expenses
This refers to expenses incurred for medical service or treatment provided which are appropriate and 
consistent with the diagnosis and which according to accepted medical standards, could not have 
been omitted without adversely affecting the life assured’s medical condition. Such charges shall not 
exceed the general level of charges made by others of similar standing in Singapore for such services 
and supplies.
1.10.24 Registered Medical Practitioner
Any person properly qualified by degree in western medicine to practice medicine, and is licensed by 
the appropriate medical authority of his country of residence to practice medicine within the scope of 
his licensing and training and excludes the policyowner, the life assured or a family member of either.
1.10.25 Review Period
Review Period is the period stated in Clause 1.1.2 above.
1.10.26 Serious Illnesses
- Blood Disorder
- Cancer
- Ischaemic heart disease
- Coronary artery disease
- Rheumatic heart disease
- Chronic obstructive lung disease
- Chronic renal disease, including renal failure
- Cerebrovascular accidents
- Chronic Liver Cirrhosis
- Systemic Lupus Erythematosus
- Degenerative diseases
1.10.27 Short Stay Ward
A Short Stay Ward is a ward where emergency department patients stay for up to 24 hours for 
observation to allow the doctors to decide whether the patient is fit for discharge or should be admitted 
to a Standard Room of a Hospital as an Inpatient. 
1.10.28 Specialist
Specialist refers to a Registered Medical Practitioner registered as a specialist with the Singapore 
Medical Council.
1.10.29 Standard Room
It is a room equipped with minimum standards, like the following:
- suitable bed, mattress, pillow, a chair and locker facility;
- bed screening facilities;
- adequate lighting and ventilation;
- an effective nurse-to-patient call bell system; and
- adequate toilet facilities /wash basin.
It shall exclude deluxe rooms, luxury suites, superior rooms, super rooms or other special rooms that 
may also be available at the Hospital.
For a single room in a private hospital, we pay normal ward rates up to the rates charged for a standard 
single room

1.10.30 Surgical Procedure
Any operative procedure, including day surgery, performed by a Registered Medical Practitioner 
involving general or local anaesthesia for the correction of deformities or defects, repair of injuries, 
and the diagnosis or cure of Illnesses.
This policy document covers the terms and conditions of the 
following plan. 
Part One: PRUShield Premier and PRUShield Plus plans
Part Two: PRUShield Standard Plan
You may wish to refer to your Policy Certificate for the plan 
that you have bought

[TABLE = Illustration of Benefits = [SUBSECTION = 1.11 Claims Example]]

• Context – A 52‑year‑old male on **PruShield Premier** was hospitalised for 9 days in a double‑bedded room of a private hospital. Diagnosis: ischaemic heart disease. Surgery performed: coronary‑artery bypass graft.

PruShield Premier has a benefit limit of “As charged” for Normal Ward daily charges; incurred SGD 5 870 for 7 days and the plan pays SGD 5 870.  
PruShield Premier has a benefit limit of “As charged” for Intensive Care Unit Ward charges; incurred SGD 1 630 for 2 days and the plan pays SGD 1 630.  
PruShield Premier has a benefit limit of “As charged” for Surgical Procedure; incurred SGD 9 000 and the plan pays SGD 9 000.  
PruShield Premier has a benefit limit of “As charged” for Implants; incurred SGD 2 400 and the plan pays SGD 2 400.

The private‑hospital deductible applied is SGD 3 500.  
The balance after deductible is SGD 15 400.  
The co‑insurance applied is SGD 1 540 (10 percent of SGD 15 400).  
The PruShield‑eligible amount, inclusive of any MediShield Life payout, is **SGD 13 860**.  
Prudential issues a cheque of SGD 13 860 to the hospital.

[/TABLE]
